=head1 NAME

ping_setopt - Set options for a liboping object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <oping.h>

  int ping_setopt (pingobj_t *obj, int opt, void *val);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ping_setopt> method sets options that apply to all hosts associated with
the object I<obj> and hosts that are yet to be added to the object.

The I<obj> argument is a pointer to an I<liboping> object, as returned by
L<ping_construct(3)>.

The I<opt> argument specifies the option to set. Use one of the following
constants. You can check if the required constant is supported by the library
at compile time using C<#ifdef>. It is recommended to check for desired
features using the C<OPING_VERSION> define.

=over 4

=item B<PING_OPT_TIMEOUT>

The time to wait for a "echo reply" to be received; in seconds. In this case
the memory pointed to by I<val> is interpreted as a double value and must be
greater than zero. The default is B<PING_DEF_TIMEOUT>.

=item B<PING_OPT_TTL>

The value written into the time-to-live (= TTL) field of generated ICMP
packets. The memory pointed to by I<val> is interpreted as an integer. Valid
values are 1 through 255. Default is B<PING_DEF_TTL>.

=item B<PING_OPT_AF>

The address family to use. The memory pointed to by I<val> is interpreted as an
integer and must be either B<AF_UNSPEC>, B<AF_INET>, or B<AF_INET6>. This
option only affects hosts that are being added B<after> this option has been
set. Default is B<PING_DEF_AF>. If you change this option, and a source address
is set (see B<PING_OPT_SOURCE>) that setting will be reset.

=item B<PING_OPT_DATA>

Set the data to send. The value passed must be a char-pointer to a
null-terminated string. By default a 56 byte long string is used so that the
packet size of an ICMPv4 packet is exactly 64 bytes. That's the behavior of the
L<ping(1)> command.

=item B<PING_OPT_SOURCE>

Set the source address to use. The value passed must be a char-pointer to a
null-terminated string specifying either a numerical network address or
network hostname. This option will ignore the address family setting (as
set with B<PING_OPT_AF>) and will set the object's address family according to
the source address assigned.

=item B<PING_OPT_DEVICE>

Set the outgoing network device to be used. The value passed must be a
char-pointer to a null-terminated string specifying an interface name
(e.E<nbsp>g. C<eth0>). Please note that this might not be supported by all
operating systems. In that case, B<ping_setopt> sets the error to
C<operation not supported>.

=item B<PING_OPT_QOS>

Sets the I<Quality of Service> flags that should be used when crafting ICMP and
ICMPv6 packets. The memory pointed to by I<val> is interpreted as a C<uint8_t>.
The byte is passed to L<setsockopt(2)> without modification, using the
C<IP_TOS> (IPv4) or C<IPV6_TCLASS> (IPv6) option. It is the caller's
responsibility to chose a valid bit combination. For details, read the L<ip(7)>
and L<ipv6(7)> manual pages, as well as I<RFCE<nbsp>2474>.

=item B<PING_OPT_MARK>

Mark (as in netfilter) outgoing packets using the SO_MARK socket option. Takes
an int* pointer as a value. Setting this requires CAP_NET_ADMIN under Linux.
Fails with C<operation not supported> on platforms which don't have SO_MARK.

=back

The I<val> argument is a pointer to the new value. It must not be NULL. It is
dereferenced depending on the value of the I<opt> argument, see above. The
memory pointed to by I<val> is not changed.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

B<ping_setopt> returns zero upon success or less than zero upon failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ping_construct(3)>,
L<liboping(3)>

=head1 AUTHOR

liboping is written by Florian "octo" Forster E<lt>ff at octo.itE<gt>.
Its homepage can be found at L<http://noping.cc/>.

Copyright (c) 2006-2017 by Florian "octo" Forster.
